ENH: add NA scalar for missing value indicator, use in StringArray. (#29597)
pandas-dev/pandas: doc/source/user_guide/missing_data.rst

   s

See :ref:`integer_na` for more.

.. _missing_data.NA:

Experimental ``NA`` scalar to denote missing values
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. warning::

   Experimental: the behaviour of ``pd.NA`` can still change without warning.

.. versionadded:: 1.0.0

Starting from pandas 1.0, an experimental ``pd.NA`` value (singleton) is
available to represent scalar missing values. At this moment, it is used in

> the nullable integer and boolean data types and the dedicated string data type

Reviewer: use commas rather than 3 ands, ideally if you can link to those sections?

return ``False``.

.. ipython:: python

   pd.NA == 1
   pd.NA == pd.NA
   pd.NA < 2.5

To check if a value is equal to ``pd.NA``, the :func:`isna` function can be
used:

.. ipython:: python

   pd.isna(pd.NA)

An exception on this basic propagation rule are *reductions* (such as the
mean or the minimum), where pandas defaults to skipping missing values. See
:ref:`above <missing_data.calculations>` for more.

Logical operations
------------------

For logical operations, ``pd.NA`` follows the rules of the
`three-valued logic <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Three-valued_logic>`__ (or
*Kleene logic*, similarly to R, SQL and Julia). This logic means to only
propagate missing values when it is logically required.

For example, for the logical "or" operation (``|``), if one of the operands
is ``True``, we already know the result will be ``True``, regardless of the
other value (so regardless the missing value would be ``True`` or ``False``).
In this case, ``pd.NA`` does not propagate:

.. ipython:: python

   True | False
   True | pd.NA
   pd.NA | True

On the other hand, if one of the operands is ``False``, the result depends

> on the value of the other operand. Therefore, in thise case ``pd.NA``

Reviewer: thise -> this

propagates:

.. ipython:: python

   False | True
   False | False
   False | pd.NA

The behaviour of the logical "and" operation (``&``) can be derived using
similar logic (where now ``pd.NA`` will not propagate if one of the operands
is already ``False``):

.. ipython:: python

   False & True
   False & False
   False & pd.NA

.. ipython:: python

   True & True
   True & False
   True & pd.NA

``NA`` in a boolean context
---------------------------

> Since the actual value of an NA is unknown, it is ambiguous to convert NA

Reviewer: I think we have a section gotchas.truth that is very similiar, could link.

to a boolean value. The following raises an error:

.. ipython:: python
   :okexcept:

   bool(pd.NA)

This also means that ``pd.NA`` cannot be used in a context where it is
evaluated to a boolean, such as ``if condition: ...`` where ``condition`` can
potentially be ``pd.NA``. In such cases, :func:`isna` can be used to check

> for ``pd.NA`` or it could be prevented that ``condition`` can be ``pd.NA``

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for ``pd.NA`` or ``condition`` being ``pd.NA`` can be avoided, for example by filling missing values beforehand.
```

(can't apply this directly, since it wraps two lines)
